Updated the Getting Started Guide - First Review (#1413)
eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds: docs/manual/getting_started.rst

Installing Eclipse Cyclone DDS
==============================

> Eclipse Cyclone DDS is a very performant and robust OMG-compliant Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eclipse Cyclone DDS is a performant and robust OMG-compliant Data
```
I think the "very" reduces the impact of the statement. We should drop it.

At this point, you are ready to use Eclipse Cyclone DDS in your
projects.

**Note:** The default build type is a release build that includes debugging 
information (RelWithDebInfo). 

This is a convenient type of build to use from applications because 
of a good mix between performance and still being able to debug things. 
If you'd rather have a Debug or pure Release build, 

> set ``CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`` accordingly.

Reviewer 2: I know this is just a format change, but the content reads really weirdly. Especially lines 196-197.

If you want to contribute to Cyclone DDS, please refer to `Appendix I
Contributing to Eclipse Cyclone DDS for
Windows. <#appendix-i-contributing-to-eclipse-cyclone-dds>`__

Installation with product installer for Windows
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

The Cyclone DDS also provides a product installer, a more simple method 

> of installation rather than installing it from GitHub.

Reviewer: I disagree with this reformulation. The previous statement boiled down to:
> Using the installer is easier in **some** environments

The reformulation corresponds to:
> Using the installer is easier in **all** environments

I don't think this is the impression that we want to provide to all developers who might be new to Cyclone.

At this point, you are ready to use Eclipse Cyclone DDS in your
projects.

**Note:** The default build type is a release build that includes debugging 
information (``RelWithDebInfo``).

> This build is suitable for applications because of its high-performance and debugging capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This build is suitable for applications because of its high-performance while still providing the ability to easily debug.
```

If you would rather have a Debug or pure Release build, set ``CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`` accordingly.

If you want to contribute to Cyclone DDS, please refer to `Appendix I
Contributing to Eclipse Cyclone DDS for
Windows. <#appendix-i-contributing-to-eclipse-cyclone-dds>`__

Installation with product installer for Windows
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> The Cyclone DDS also provides a product installer, a more simple method 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cyclone DDS also provides a product installer, a more simple method 
```

At this point, you are ready to use Eclipse Cyclone DDS in your
projects.

**Note:** The default build type is a release build that includes debugging 
information (RelWithDebInfo). 

This build is commonly used from applications because of its high performance and debugging capabilities.  
If you'd rather have a Debug or pure Release build, set ``CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`` accordingly.

If you want to contribute to Cyclone DDS, please refer to `Appendix I
Contributing to Eclipse Cyclone DDS for
Windows. <#appendix-i-contributing-to-eclipse-cyclone-dds>`__

> Installation with product installer for Windows

Reviewer 3: Yeah clearly I did not review this properly last time around: there is no product installer included in the open source releases (although there are tools to build one). I think it is again best to remove this section. Also, the image naming sceme is not the best, renaming the images and updating the references is not a bad idea either (although tedious I agree)

   :align: center

The installation of Cyclone DDS core, C-APIs, and pre-compiler is
complete. 

The following section describes how to test it.

Additional Installation Procedures for Python
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This section shows the installation procedure for Eclipse Cyclone DDS Python, wrapping the `Eclipse Cyclone DDS`_ C-API for easy creation of DDS applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section shows the installation procedure for Eclipse Cyclone DDS Python, wrapping the `Eclipse Cyclone DDS`_ C-API for the usage in Python applications.
```

.. _installing:

Prerequisites
''''''''''''''

CycloneDDS Python requires Python version 3.7 or higher, with 3.11 support provisional. The wheels on PyPi contain a pre-built binary of the CycloneDDS C library and IDL compiler. These have a couple of caveats. The pre-built package:

 * Does not provide support for DDS Security,
 * Does not provide support for shared memory via Iceoryx,
 * Comes with generic Cyclone DDS binaries that are not optimized per platform.

> If you need these features or cannot use the binaries for other reasons, you can install the Cyclone DDS Python library from the source. You will need to set the environment variable ``CYCLONEDDS_HOME`` to allow the installer to locate the CycloneDDS C library if it is on a non-standard path. At runtime, we leverage several mechanisms to locate the appropriate library for the platform. If you get an exception about non-locatable libraries or wish to manage multiple CycloneDDS installations, you can use the environment variable ``CYCLONEDDS_HOME`` to override the load location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need these features, or cannot use the binaries for other reasons, you can install the Cyclone DDS Python library from the source. You will need to set the environment variable ``CYCLONEDDS_HOME`` to allow the installer to locate the CycloneDDS C library if it is on the ``PATH``. At runtime, we leverage several mechanisms to locate the appropriate library for the platform. If you get an exception about non-locatable libraries, or wish to manage multiple CycloneDDS installations, you can use the environment variable ``CYCLONEDDS_HOME`` to override the load location.
```

    git clone https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds-python
    cd cyclonedds-python

    # Testsuite:
    pip install .[dev]
    pytest

    # Documentation
    pip install .[docs]
    cd docs
    sphinx-build ./source ./build
    python -m http.server --directory build

Permission denied errors could occur when you try to access a file from Python without having the necessary permissions. 
To fix this error, it is recommended to use `a virtual environment`_, `poetry`_, `pipenv`_ or `pyenv`_. If you *just* want to get going, you can add ``--user`` to your pip command to install for the current user. See the `Installing Python Modules`_ documentation.

.. _first_app:

.. _Eclipse Cyclone DDS: https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/
.. _a virtual environment: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html
.. _poetry: https://python-poetry.org/
.. _pipenv: https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/
.. _pyenv: https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv
.. _Installing Python Modules: https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html

.. _test_your_installation:

Test your Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To test if your installation and configuration are working correctly,

> you can use the Cyclone DDS *ddsperf* tool (``ddsperf sanity``), or you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can use the Cyclone DDS ``ddsperf`` tool (``ddsperf sanity``), or you
```

.. _pipenv: https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/
.. _pyenv: https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv
.. _Installing Python Modules: https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html

.. _test_your_installation:

Test your Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To test if your installation and configuration are working correctly,
you can use the Cyclone DDS ``ddsperf`` tool (``ddsperf sanity``), or you
can use the Hello World example. To use the ddsperf tool, refer to
`testing your network
configuration. <#testing-your-network-configuration>`__ The test
using the Hello World example is explained in this section.

Environment variable updates
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

To run Eclipse Cyclone DDS executables on Windows, the required libraries
(like ``ddsc.dll``) must be available to the executables. Typically,
these libraries are installed in system default locations and work
out of the box.
However, the library search path must be changed if they are not installed in those locations. This can be achieved by
executing the  following command:

.. code-block:: PowerShell

    set PATH=<install-location>\bin;%PATH%

**Note:** An alternative to make the required libraries available to the

> executables are to copy the necessary libraries for the

Reviewer 2: `An alternative ... is`, not `An alternative ... are`.

Environnement variable updates
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

To run Eclipse Cyclone DDS executables on Windows, the required libraries
(like ``ddsc.dll``) must be available to the executables. Typically,

> these libraries are installed in system default locations and work

Reviewer 2: We should specify default locations. Otherwise users will have to `grep` for them in the source or  via their OS searching after installing.

the appropriate directory in both console windows. Run
``HelloworldSubscriber`` in one of the console windows using:

> (Insert Tabs plugin for Win and Linux here)

Reviewer 2: Is this `TODO`?

 **Windows** ``HelloworldSubscriber.exe``

 **Linux** ``./HelloworldSubscriber``

Run ``HelloworldPublisher`` in the other console window using:

> (Insert Tabs plugin for Win and Linux here)

Reviewer 2: Is this `TODO`?

Windows
^^^^^^^

> On Windows, to uninstall the Cyclone DDS, you can either do it from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Windows, to uninstall Cyclone DDS, you can either do it from the
```

Windows application control panel (Programs and Features in Control
Panel) or by using the product installer; in this case, start-up the
Cyclone DDS product installer, and select 'Remove.'

.. image:: /_static/gettingstarted-figures/1.8.2.1.png
   :align: center

Installation with product installer for Linux and macOS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When installing the product from a (.deb) package on the default location, run the command below to build the C or C++ examples:

.. code-block:: bash

1. Copy the example from Eclipse Cyclone DDS to your preferred location (e.g to your <Instal_DIR>) 
2. Browse to the folder directory and create a "build" directory to retain all the build files: 
        <Instal_DIR>/CycloneDDSPro/CycloneDDS/examples/helloworld
     then call cmake , > cmake ../
3. Build the example using > cmake --build 

> You have successfully installed the product from a (.deb) and built your C or C++ example.

Reviewer 2: This seems unclear, and I do not use Debian so I cannot verify.

    rm -rf *

Uninstall Cyclone DDS product installer
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
Windows
^^^^^^^

On Windows, to uninstall Cyclone DDS, you can either do it from the
Windows application control panel (Programs and Features in Control
Panel) or by using the product installer; in this case, start-up the

> Cyclone DDS product installer, and select 'Remove.'

Reviewer 2: This should also be defined clearly in a style guide. Because I would expect from this that the `Remove` button would have a period as well, instead of the period ending the sentence. I'm aware that some people might include the terminating punctuation within the quote, but it leads to more confusion here (which we want to avoid).

In the previous sections, building the *Hello* *World!* example is done
by default during the Cyclone build process. However, the *Hello*
*World!* example can also be built using the `CMake
tool <http://cmake.org/>`__, although you can build with your
native compilers and preferred toolchains.

`CMake <http://cmake.org/>`__ is an open-source, cross-platform family
of tools designed to build, test, and package software. It is used to
control the software compilation process using simple platform and
compiler-independent configuration files. It also generates native
makefiles, projects, and workspaces of your development environment.
CMake's main strength is built portability. The same CMake input files
build with GNU make, Visual Studio 6,7,8 IDEs, Borland make, nmake, and
XCode, etc...

Another advantage of CMake is building out-of-source. It simply works

> out of the box. There are two fundamental reasons to choose this means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out of the box. This facilitates:
```

    "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/../../")
    endif()

    # This is a convenience function provided by the CycloneDDS package,
    # that will supply a library target related to the given idl file.

>     # In short, it takes the idl file, and generates the source files with
>     # the proper data types and compiles them into a library.

Reviewer 2: `and` should not be added. And I think we should also standardise the usage of the Oxford comma. It could reduce some ambiguity in certain cases.
```suggestion
    # In short it takes the IDL file, generates the source files with
    # the proper data types, and then compiles them into a library.
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In a service-centric architecture, to interact, applications need to
know each other's interfaces to share data, share events, and share
commands or replies. These interfaces are modeled as sets of operations
and functions that are managed in centralized repositories. This kind of
architecture creates unnecessary dependencies that create a
tightly coupled system. The centralized interface repositories are
usually seen as a single point of failure.

> In a data-centric architecture, your design focuses on the data each

Reviewer: Have we decided on American or UK spelling for these documents? If it's UK spelling this should be:
```suggestion
In a data-centric architecture, your design focusses on the data each
```
The decision should be added to a style guide.

> the application produces and decides to share rather than on the Interfaces'

Reviewer 2: focuses on the data each application produces

operations and the internal processing that produced them.

A data-centric architecture creates a decoupled system that focuses on
the data and applications states' that need to be shared rather than the
applications' details. In a data-centric system, data and their
associated quality of services are the only contracts that bounds the
applications together. With DDS, the system decoupling is

> bi-dimensional, in Space and time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bi-dimensional, in both space and time.
```

> Space-decoupling derives from the fact that applications do not need to,

Reviewer 2: GitHub is preventing me from suggesting code now for some reason due to "deleted lines". So I will write my suggestion here:
Space-decoupling derives from the fact that applications do not need to know the identity of the data produced or consumed, nor their logical or physical location in the network.

either knows the identity of the data produced (or consumers) nor their
logical or their physical location in the network. Under the hood, DDS
runs a zero-configuration, interoperable discovery protocol that
searches matching data readers and data writes that are interested in
the same data topic.

Time-decoupling derives from the fact that, fundamentally, the nature of
communication is asynchronous. Data producers and consumers,

> known as DataWriter's and data readers, are not forced to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
known as ``DataWriter``s and ``DataReader``s, are not forced to
```

be active and connected simultaneously to share data. In this

> scenario, the DDS middleware can handle and manage data on behalf of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scenario, the DDS middleware can handle and manage data on behalf of
```

> late joining data readers applications and deliver to it when they

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
late joining ``DataReader`` applications and deliver to them when they
```

join the system.

Time and space decoupling gives applications the freedom to be plugged

> or unplugged in the system at any time, from anywhere, in any order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or unplugged from the system at any time, from anywhere, in any order.
```

This keeps the complexity and administration of a data-centric

> architecture relatively low when adding more and more data readers and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
architecture relatively low when adding more and more ``DataReader`` and
```

> DataWriter's applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``DataWriter`` applications.
```

.. _key_steps:

Keys steps to build the Hello World! application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The *Hello World!* example has an effortless 'data layer' with a data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Hello World!* example has a minimal 'data layer' with a data
```

1. Declare its participation and involvement in a *DDS domain*. A DDS
   domain is an administrative boundary that defines, scopes, and
   gathers all the DDS applications, data, and infrastructure that must 
   interconnect by sharing the same data space. Each DDS
   domain has a unique identifier. Applications declare their
   participation within a DDS domain by creating a **Domain Participant
   entity**.
2. Create a **Data topic** with the data type described in a data
   model. The data types define the structure of the Topic. The Topic is
   therefore, an association between the topic's name and a datatype.
   QoSs can be optionally added to this association. The concept Topic
   therefore discriminates and categorizes the data in logical classes
   and streams.
3. Create the **Data Readers** and **Writers** entities 
   specific to the topic. Applications may want to change the default

>    QoSs. In the Hello world! Example, the ``ReliabilityQoS`` is changed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   QoSs. In the ``Hello world!`` example, the ``ReliabilityQoS`` is changed
```

   participation within a DDS domain by creating a **Domain Participant
   entity**.
2. Create a **Data topic** with the data type described in a data
   model. The data types define the structure of the Topic. The Topic is
   therefore, an association between the topic's name and a datatype.
   QoSs can be optionally added to this association. The concept Topic
   therefore discriminates and categorizes the data in logical classes
   and streams.
3. Create the **Data Readers** and **Writers** entities 
   specific to the topic. Applications may want to change the default
   QoSs. In the ``Hello world!`` example, the ``ReliabilityQoS`` is changed
   from its default value (``Best-effort``) to ``Reliable``.
4. Once the previous DDS computational entities are in place, the
   application logic can start writing or reading the data.

At the application level, readers and writers do not need to be aware of
each other. The reading application, hereby called Subscriber, polls the
data reader periodically, until a publishing application, hereby called
The publisher writes the required data into the shared topic, namely
``HelloWorldData_Msg``.

> The data type is described using the OMG IDL.

Reviewer 3: Extra "."

        };
    };

The OMG Interface Definition Language (IDL) subset is used as DDS
data definition language. In our simple example, the HelloWorld data
model is made of one module ``HelloWorldData``. A module can be seen as

> a namespace where data with interrelated semantics is represented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a namespace where data with interrelated semantics are represented
```

together in the same logical set.

The ``structMsg`` is the data type that shapes the data used to
build topics. As already mentioned, a topic is an association between a
data type and a string name. The topic name is not defined in the IDL

> file, but the application business logic at runtime determines it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file, but the application business logic determines it at runtime.
```

In our simplistic case, the data type Msg contains two fields:

> ``userID`` and ``message`` payload. The ``userID`` is used to identify each message instance uniquely. This is done using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``userID`` and ``message`` payload. The ``userID`` is used to uniquely identify each message instance. This is done using the
```

    } HelloWorldData_Msg;

**Note:** When translated into a different programming language, the
data has another representation specific to the target
language. For instance, as shown in chapter 7, in C++, the Helloworld

> data type is represented by a C++ class. This advantage of using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data type is represented by a C++ class. This highlights the advantage of using
```

a neutral language like IDL to describe the data model. It can be
translated into different languages that can be shared between different
applications written in other programming languages.

Generated files with the IDL compiler
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> In Cyclone DDS, the IDL compiler is a C program that processes .idl files.

Reviewer: Should we decide on a consistency as part of a style guide when referring to files? I have seen `IDL files`, `.idl files`, and `idl files`.

      printf ("\n=== [Subscriber] Waiting for a sample ...\n");

      /* Initialize the sample buffer, by pointing the void pointer within
      * the buffer array to a valid sample memory location. */
      samples[0] = HelloWorldData_Msg alloc ();

      /* Poll until data has been read. */
      while (true)
      {
        /* Do the actual read.

>         * The return value contains the number of reading samples. */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * The return value contains the number of samples read. */
```

    set_property(TARGET ddscxxHelloworldSubscriber PROPERTY CXX_STANDARD 11)

To build a Cyclone DDS CXX based application with CMake, you must link
your application business code with:

-  ``Cyclone DDS CXX`` libraries that contain the DDS CXX API your
   application needs.

-  The wrapper classes and structures that represent your datatypes and
   the customized-DataWriter's and readers that can handle these data
   types. These classes are generated by the CMake statement
   ``idlcxx_generate()`` that incepts the IDL file, invokes the
   IDL compiler and packages the datatype wrapper classes in a library
   (e.g. ``ddscxxHelloWorldData_lib``).

This process is depicted as follows:

.. image:: /_static/gettingstarted-figures/6.1.1-1.png
   :align: center

Setting the property for the applications in the CMake
``set_property()`` statement, compiles the application against the
``C++ 11`` standard.

The application executable (``ddscxxHellowordPublisher``) is built with
the CMake ``target_link_libraries()`` statement which links the ddscxx
lib, the datatype wrapper classes lib (e.g ``ddscxxHelloWorldData_lib``)
and the application code lib.

> The CMake tries to find the ``CycloneDDS`` and ``CycloneDDSCXX``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CMake tries to find the ``CycloneDDS`` and ``CycloneDDSCXX``
```

Building the DDS CXX Hello World example on Linux and macOS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To build the *DDS CXX Hello World* example, the ``PREFIX_PATH`` must be
specified, the command is:

.. code-block:: bash

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="<cyclone-install-location>;<cyclonedds-cxx-install-location>" ..
    cmake --build .

The *DDS CXX Hello World* example application can now be found in the
``helloworld/build`` directory, use the method in `Test your CXX
installation <#test-your-cxx-installation-for-native-installation>`__
to check if the application runs successfully.

Building the DDS CXX Hello World example on Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To build the *DDS CXX Hello World* example in Windows, it's likely that
you have to specify the generator for CMake. For example, to generate a
Visual Studio 2017 project, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -G “Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64” -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=”<cyclone-install-location>;<cyclonedds-cxx-install-location>” ..

CMake uses the CMakeLists.txt in the helloworld directory to create

> makefiles that fit the native platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
makefiles that target the native platform.
```

Hello World! Code Anatomy in Python
===================================
This section details how to create your first DDS application in Python API.

Your first Python DDS application
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Let's enter the world of DDS by making our presence known. We will not worry about configuration or what DDS does under the hood but write a single message. 
To publish anything to DDS we need to define the type of message first. Suppose you are worried about talking to other applications that are not necessarily running Python. In that case, you will use the CycloneDDS IDL compiler, but for now, we will manually define our message type directly in Python using the ``cyclonedds.idl`` tools:

.. code-block:: python3
    :linenos:

    from dataclasses import dataclass
    from cyclonedds.idl import IdlStruct

    @dataclass
    class Message(IdlStruct):
        text: str

    name = input("What is your name? ")
    message = Message(text=f"{name} has started his first DDS Python application!")

With ``cyclonedds.idl`` write typed classes with the standard library module `dataclasses <python:dataclasses>`. 

> For this simple application, you put in a piece of text, but this system has the same expressive power as the OMG IDL specification, allowing you to use almost any complex datastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this simple application, the data being transmitted only contains a piece of text, but this system has the same expressive power as the OMG IDL specification, allowing you to use almost any complex datastructure.
```

To send your message over a DDS domain, carry out the following steps:

1. Join the DDS network using a DomainParticipant
2. Define which data type and under what name you will publish your message as a Topic
3. Create the DataWriter that publishes that Topic
4. And finally, publish the message.

.. code-block:: python3
    :linenos:

    
    from cyclonedds.topic import Topic
    from cyclonedds.pub import DataWriter

    participant = DomainParticipant()
    topic = Topic(participant, "Announcements", Message)
    writer = DataWriter(participant, topic)

    writer.write(message)

> You have now published your first message successfully! However, it is hard to tell if that did anything, since we don't have anything set up that is listening. Let's make a second script that takes messages from DDS and prints them to the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have now published your first message successfully! However, it is hard to tell if that did anything, since we don't have anything set up to listen for incoming messages. Let's make a second script that takes messages from DDS and prints them to the terminal:
```

System requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before You Get Started with Eclipse Cyclone DDS
===============================================

> At the time of writing this document, Eclipse Cyclone DDS CXX supports

Reviewer 3: I've already seen this content earlier in the document, it looks to be duplicated.

    cmake --build .

The ``<cyclonedds-cxx-install-location>`` is where the C++ binding for
Cyclone DDS is installed.

To install the package after a successful build:

> Depending on the installation location, you may need an administrator

Reviewer 2: I will add an explanation since this has reoccured. The word `privileges` is plural, and administrator is a qualifier of privileges. Since `an` is used with singular nouns, and `administrator privileges` is plural, you should *not* preface it with `an`.

.. code-block:: bash

    cmake -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<cyclonedds-cxx-install-location> -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="<cyclonedds-install-location>" 
    -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=ON ..

To install after a successful build:

> Depending on the installation location, you may need an administrator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the installation location, you may need administrator
```

At this point, you are ready to use Eclipse Cyclone DDS CXX in your
projects.

**Note:** The default build type is a release build that includes debugging 
information (``RelWithDebInfo``). This build is suitable for applications because of its high-performance and debugging capabilities.
If you prefer a Debug or a pure Release build, set ``CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`` accordingly.

If you want to contribute to Cyclone DDS CXX, refer to `Contributing to
Eclipse Cyclone DDS CXX for Windows in Appendix
II. <#appendix-ii-contributing-to-eclipse-cyclone-dds-cxx>`__

> Installing Cyclone DDS CXX from the installer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing Cyclone DDS CXX with the installer
```

To exchange data, applications' business logic with Cyclone DDS must:

1. Declare its subscription and involvement into a **DDS domain**. A
   DDS domain is an administrative boundary that defines, scopes, and
   gathers all the DDS applications, data, and infrastructure that needs
   to interconnect and share the same data space. Each DDS domain has a
   unique identifier. Applications declare their participation within a
   DDS domain by creating a **Domain Participant entity**.
2. Create a **Data topic** with the data type described in the data
   model. The data types define the structure of the Topic. The Topic is,
   therefore, an association between the topic name and datatype. QoSs

>    can be optionally added to this association. A Topic, therefore

Reviewer: Too many "therefore"s in sequence

```suggestion
   can be optionally added to this association. Thus, a Topic
```

   categorizes the data into logical classes and streams.
3. Create at least a **Publisher**, a **Subscriber**, and **Data
   Readers** and **Writers** object specific to the topic
   created earlier. Applications may want to change the default QoSs at
   this stage. In the Hello world! example, the ``ReliabilityQoS`` is
   changed from its default value (Best-effort) to Reliable.
4. Once the previous DDS computational objects are in place, the
   application logic can start writing or reading the data.

At the application level, readers and writers need not be aware of

> each other. The reading application, now designated as application
> Subscriber polls the data reader periodically until a writing
> application, as a result of this called application Publisher, 

Reviewer: I have provided some fixes for this. However, I think this whole paragraph needs some tweaking because of how run-on it is.
```suggestion
each other. The reading application, now designated as application
Subscriber, polls the data reader periodically until a writing
application, designated as application Publisher, 
```

        };
    };

> The OMG Interface Definition Language (IDL) subset uses a DDS
> data definition language. In our simple example, the HelloWorld data

Reviewer: I think this change incorrectly conveys the meaning of the original sentence. Perhaps:
```suggestion
The data definition language used for DDS corresponds to a subset of 
the OMG Interface Definition Language (IDL). In our simple example, the HelloWorld data
```

model is made of one module ``HelloWorldData``. A module can be seen 

> as a namespace where data with interrelated semantics is represented 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as a namespace where data with interrelated semantics are represented 
```

> together in the same logical set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
together as a logical unit.
```

The struct Msg is the actual data structure that shapes the data used to
build the Topics. As already mentioned, a topic is an
association between a data type and a string name. The topic name is not

> defined in the IDL file but is defined by the application business

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defined in the IDL file but is instead defined by the application business
```

logic at runtime.

In our case, the data type ``Msg`` contains two fields: ``userID`` and

> ``message`` payload. The ``userID`` is used to identify each message 
> instance uniquely. This is done using the ``@key`` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``message`` payload. The ``userID`` is used to uniquely identify each message 
instance. This is done using the ``@key`` annotation.
```

-  A default (empty) constructor that recursively invokes the
   constructors of all fields
-  A copy-constructor that performs a deep copy from the existing class
-  A move-constructor that moves all arguments to its members

The destructor recursively releases all fields. It also generates code
for assignment operators that recursively construct all fields based on
the parameter class (copy and move versions). The following code snippet is

> provided without warranty: the internal format can change, but the API 
> it provides to your application code is stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided without warranty: the internal format may change, but the API 
provided to your application code is stable.
```

        };
    };

The data definition language used for DDS corresponds to a subset of 
the OMG Interface Definition Language (IDL). In our simple example, the HelloWorld data
model is made of one module ``HelloWorldData``. A module can be seen 
as a namespace where data with interrelated semantics are represented 
together as a logical unit.

The struct Msg is the actual data structure that shapes the data used to
build the Topics. As already mentioned, a topic is an
association between a data type and a string name. The topic name is not
defined in the IDL file but is instead defined by the application business
logic at runtime.

In our case, the data type ``Msg`` contains two fields: ``userID`` and
``message`` payload. The ``userID`` is used to uniquely identify each message 
instance. This is done using the ``@key`` annotation.

> The Cyclone DDS CXX IDL compiler translates the module names into

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Cyclone DDS CXX IDL compiler translates module names into
```

    }

**Note:** When translated into a different programming language, the
data has a different representation specific to the target
language. For instance, as shown in chapter 3, in C, the Helloworld data

> type is represented by a C structure. This advantage of using a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type is represented by a C structure. This highlights the advantage of using a
```

-  ``HelloWorldData.hpp``
-  ``HelloWorldData.cpp``

When using CMake to build the application, this step is hidden and is
done automatically. For building with CMake, refer to `building the
HelloWorld example. <#build-the-dds-cxx-hello-world-example>`__

``HelloWorldData.hpp`` and ``HelloWorldData.cpp`` files contain the data
type of messages that are shared.

DDS CXX Hello World Business Logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As well as from the ``HelloWorldData`` data type files that the *DDS CXX
Hello World* example used to send messages, the *DDS CXX Hello World!*

> the example also contains two application-level source files

Reviewer: I think this fix was an error.
```suggestion
example also contains two application-level source files
```

    #include "dds/dds.hpp"
    #include "HelloWorldData.hpp"

At least four DDS entities are needed, the domain participant, 

> the topic, the subscriber, and the reader.

Reviewer: I think @poetinger mentioned this earlier. We should decide on use of the Oxford comma in a style guide. Many parts of the document do not use it and some of the fixes that were made do not include it.

I personally prefer the Oxford comma though as it limits ambiguity in some cases.

            /* Now, the writer can be created to publish a HelloWorld message. */
            dds::pub::DataWriter<HelloWorldData::Msg> writer(publisher, topic);

            /* For this example, we'd like to have a subscriber read
             * our message. This is not always necessary. Also, the way it is

>              * done here is to illustrate the easiest way to do so. It isn't
>              * It is recommended to do a wait in a polling loop, however

Reviewer: The fix that was applied is contrary to the content it was trying to fix.
```suggestion
             * done here is to illustrate the easiest way to do so. However, it is *not*
             * recommended to do a wait in a polling loop.
```

    writer.write(msg);

After writing the data to the writer, the *DDS CXX Hello World* example

> checks if a matching subscriber(s) is still available. If 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checks if matching subscribers are still available. If 
```

> a matching subscriber(s) exists, the example waits for 50ms and starts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matching subscribers exist, the example waits for 50ms and starts
```
